Welcome to Pam Dner's session, the GTM
reset. Building a marketing plan that
works with practical AI prompts. I'm Amy
Gabriel, demand generation manager at
Zoom Info, and today we'll be talking
about how to define your customers um
align product with revenue goals and
build um a plan your team can execute.
We appreciate you joining us today.
We'll kick things off shortly, but first
I need to cover a few housekeeping
items. If you're experiencing any issues
with viewing, please let us know by
utilizing the Q&A chat on your screen.
Since this is a web-based platform,
typically refreshing your browser does
the trick. There is a Q&A session over
to the right side of your screen as
well. Submit your questions as they come
up. We have a lot of material to cover
today and we will answer these as time
permits.
The session is being recorded. you you
will receive an email with the link to
the recording within 48 hours after we
conclude today. So, keep an eye on your
inbox. Um, as we share AI prompts today,
please remember that public AI tools may
retain your data. Avoid entering
confidential company information,
customer data, or proprietary details
into public platforms. Always follow
your organization's AI usage policies
and consult with IT or legal if you're
unsure. The examples we share um are for
educational purposes, so please adopt
them responsibly. The last housekeeping
item is our safe harbor statement. Zoom
Info is a publicly traded company. This
presentation may contain forward-looking
statements. Any buying decisions you
make should be based made based only
upon currently available products and
offerings. So, now that I've covered the
housekeeping items, I am so thrilled to
be joined by Pam Dner, five-time author,
AI keynote speaker, and B2B marketing
ROI consultant, who has helped growing
technology companies and SAS platforms
increase revenue by anywhere from 5 to
25% through measurement systems that
directly connect marketing spend to
close deals. Pam specializes in
equipping leaders um to unify sales,
marketing, and AI for measurable growth,
delivering practical, executionready
strategies through consulting and our
humanled co-pilot workshops. She works
with B2B companies globally, helping
them prove marketing ROI and drive real
business outcomes. I also want to
mention that Pam is one of the featured
experts in Zoom Info's latest 2026 GTM
predictions report where she discusses
how AI fundamentally reshape is
reshaping the buyer first touch point
with brands. It's a great read if you
haven't seen it yet and her perspective
really underscores the transformational
moment we're in right now. A link to the
report can be found in the resources
section to the right of the screen.
Additionally, you'll find Pam's GTM
workbook which includes AI prompts you
can customize and use. So without
further ado, welcome Pam. We're so happy
to have you here today.
>> Oh my god, I just shared my script with
everybody what I want to say.
Amy, thank you so much for that intro.
Completely completely overrated.
Anyway, happy Thursday everyone. Thank
you so much for joining this webinar
hosted by Zoom Info and Amy. Like I
said, I really appreciate that uh that
intro. Okay, just forget everything what
Amy just said.
Anyway, so Becca and Amy from Zoom Info
and I chatted last year. We were like
thinking about, hey, we want to create
the webinar to help people actually do
GTM better. I was like, challenge
accepted. I can do this. I'm a Barney.
I'm Barney Simpson. If you don't know,
Barney is actually from How I Met Your
Mother. I love that sitcom. Do you love
that sitcom? It's so good.
Anyway, so let's just be very honest
upfront. Okay, first of all, nothing I
said is earthshattering.
Nothing.
Many of you, I actually know some of
you, Greg, Mark, I know some of you, you
are all very seasoned and experienced
and you probably have done GTM more than
I did. So, but what I want to do today
is I want you to think about GTM a
little bit differently. I don't really
have any shiny ideas I can share with
you. None. None. The only thing I want
to do is I want you to think a little
bit differently about how you approach
GTM. And most of my ideas come from the
perspective of being GTM as a enterprise
marketer. So I was in the corporate for
20ome years. I'm not a typical uh uh a
corporate consultant or individual
consultant. I was actually in enterprise
or company for 20ome years. So when I
did GTM, I was literally in the trenches
and doing product launches and I want to
share some of my thoughts with you in
terms of the mistakes I made and also
working with some of my client and doing
GTM in the past 10 11 years. So and I
would like you honestly to stay with me
and I would like you to think with me.
Whatever I said I would like you to
think about it and I always encourage
everybody who attend my session to
disagree with me. If you actually are
disagreeing with me that means you are
thinking okay if you are like nah I
disagree with Pam all right now and or I
said or said like oh yeah I can apply
this portion of it that's great but if
you disagree with me then think about it
how are you going to make that different
to apply to your job all right so and
also if I bore you
I totally understand I probably will if
that's the case, feel free to multitask.
Your time is indeed precious.
With that being said, there are three
things I want to talk about today.
Three. Number one is the definition of
GTM, the types of GTM, and also the key
elements from my perspective that you
need to include as a part of GTM. And
then I will touch on AI's role in some
of the key elements I would like to
share with you. That is it. Okay. Like I
said, just focus on the things I talk
about and think about it. What I usually
do is to help marketers think and that's
your job. And we should not ever
delegate that critical thinking to AI.
And
for GTM based on my experience working
on GTM internally within the within
organization I have come to realize the
definition of GTM does matter because
how you define GTM is going to guide
your behavior and how you lead your
whole team. And this is very important
even though there's a subtle difference
in terms of definition it will change
your behavior. And let me share some of
definitions with you.
Number one, you can define GTM as an
intentional and well wellcrafted plan to
introduce product to the market with a
better chance of success. That means hey
you know what this is great product I am
going to create GTM plan so there's a
better chance of selling this product.
you bend the odds to your favor,
right? The other one is like, okay, you
know what? I'm going to create GTM to
convince my customers to buy my product
so they will be more efficient and more
effective. And I will tell this I will
tell you the subtle differences among
the definitions. Okay, that's like I
want to convince them.
There's another definition that you can
you will run into especially on the
internet is a comprehensive sales and
marketing launch that define ideal
customers with a unique competitive
product positioning that align with your
product, your teams, your sales, your
marketing.
Okay, that's a slightly different
definition.
Why?
Why does it matter to choose the right
definition in your mind internally? And
also which one would you choose?
If we are doing like in person
interactive workshop, I would give
everybody time to think and then we will
have a conversation. Unfortunately, I
only have 60 minutes with all of you.
So, I want you to think about it
silently in your mind. You don't have to
share that with me, but just think about
it. Okay? And why does this matter? I
spilled matter wrong. Okay? Very good,
Pam. Smart. I did this actually last
minute like literally three minutes
before I uh I decided to uh go live. So,
is it matter? Why does it matter?
Let me tell you the differences in the
definition how that will guide your
behavior. Okay, the first definition
it's more sales focused.
This is like the better chance to
success, right? So you are going to more
focus on I'm going to educating the
sales team. We're going to sell this
product. The second one is more content
focused. I want to convince you to buy.
I'm going to give you information to
show you why you should buy our product.
That's more customer success and a more
content focus. The last one is more
internal team focus. I want to make sure
all the teams are aligned so we can do
GTM successfully.
Whatever definition you choose will
subtly guide how you put your plan
together. Trust me, I know.
So, for today's
talk, I really want to focus on the last
one. My GTM plan more or less is a a
templates to share with you how you can
align, integrate and work with internal
teams
and any kind of
GTM success is heavily hinged on how
good your product is, how strong your
sales and marketing teams are.
Nobody will talk about this. Every
LinkedIn post that you have seen on GTM
is always talking about tools. How can
we use tools better? I'm telling you the
GTM success has a lot to do with your
product. Your product needs to be solid.
You as a marketer needs to be convinced.
You know what? Our product is good.
If you are not convinced your product is
good, I'm telling you GTM is only
putting the lipsticks on a pig. Okay?
The product needs to be solid
and you have a strong sales team
marketing. You know why we are all good?
We are all very strong.
The other thing I want to share with you
is a type of GTM.
What kind of GTM are you doing? Are you
doing new market, new product? Are you
doing existing products you just kind of
have enhanced features or you are using
existing product you are just testing it
or is it new services is always much
harder for GTM right and uh so you have
to kind of think through the type of GTM
that you are doing everyone does that
make sense because the if this new
products and new market yes that's a
full scope GTM but sometimes it's Not
sometimes it's a soft launch you have
existing product you have additional
features that you added you want to go
to market with additional features that
is a slightly different scope in terms
of GTM that helpful everybody define
your GTM
define the types of GTM that you will do
from my perspective internally as a
person that try to put a GTM plane
together internally
There are three components, three
components only. Sales, products, and
marketing.
Inside of that circle is the competitive
analysis.
I don't want to argue with anybody. Some
people will basically said Pam that
should be customer. You know what?
Customer is given. We don't have to talk
about it. You are serving your
customers. The key is for you to
understand your competition.
Does that make sense everybody? Is that
good?
When I say thinking, it's you literally
have to sit back, stare at the the the
the three elements and you think.
When I say think, is not blindly
randomly thinking. When I say thinking
is really that you build a couple
categories to start like what you want
to address in each segment.
Like I said,
my job for today is help you to help you
think.
All of you are incredibly seasoned
because I know some of you and I know
how good you are. I am only trying to
point out a couple things so you can
think a little differently. And
sometimes just tweak
that little bit can go you know for
miles everyone. Okay.
So and the more I do marketing honestly
the more I feel it's the execution is
very important. This is just uh off the
topic for a second. The execution is
very important. It's the thinking part
that we tend to feel short. And I
encourage you to actually spend more
time to think about the stuff especially
big initiatives that you want to do.
Okay.
So the guide you thinking is start with
a couple categories you want to address
in each segment and I'm just going to
give you and then then like I said in
the real workshop and I will start
talking about it with everybody you know
and and I also give away chocolates if
you have attend any of my inerson
workshop. You know what? I give away
chocolates and they have good
chocolates. So if you ever want to come
to my Inerson workshop, let me know.
Okay? I'll make sure I take care of you.
So the key is for the three elements,
what categories
that you have to identify for each
component. What will you include?
And these are not necessarily all of it
but I would say big chunk of it right on
the product side I can tell you product
specifically from marketing's
perspective is always features and
positioning
and what are some of the feature and
positioning that we have to do and the
other thing is always pricing and the
business model how this product will be
sold will that be will that be sold
directly by uh our direct sales force
course or that would that be uh would
that be uh be distributed through our
channel partners? Right. So that have
have uh oh can somebody confirm
uh can can confirm that uh Pam brings
legit chocolates to the session?
Hey, how are you? So good to see you. So
good to see you.
Okay. So the products uh from
marketing's perspective tend to be the
feature positioning and uh another thing
is the business model. How we going to
sell that product? Sales in general is a
sales on boarding sales training
specifically. How many time when you do
GTM the first thing that the sales
people said is what can I say? That's
why they care. What can they say? What
can they say about the GTM? And what
content do I have? These are the two
questions they tend to ask. Sales
training, product demo, testimonial, all
the support that you need to do behind
the scenes to make sure they look
fantastic.
Yeah. Marketing of course all of you are
marketers. The PR part of it, the
channel you need to dial up, the content
you need to create, the user experience
that everybody take for granted,
right? And chances are you are the one
need to pull the GTM plane together.
Right? So for all these are categories.
For these categories you need to think
about it. What are the questions that
you have to answer? What are the
questions you have to answer?
And uh Amy, did you upload the worksheet
to every uh to the to this um to this
webinar that people can download?
Amy,
>> I sure did, Pam. I uh they're in the
resource center and I just popped it up
for download and and in a box in front
of the screen.
>> Okay. So I'm not going to go to each one
of them in depth given the amount of
time that we have. But you can also
download uh a worksheet. In the
worksheet, it actually have the uh
essential slides and also uh some of the
key points I mentioned. Right? So for
product I can tell you is always about
how do we position our product and uh
what features we need to dial up that we
really want to say and how does that
compare with our competitors and on the
GTM I can tell you internally with
inside the company that there you always
a lot of debates the debate tend to be
positioning and another debate is who
are our customers
okay these are two I'm telling
It's the debate is it will take forever.
In general, the who are customers
sometimes uh requires even more
discussion than you think because your
executives definition on who the
customers are versus the product teams
versus the sales teams. They tend to be
different because for us marketing we
tend to focus on end users but and also
are the product team. But when you talk
to a salespeople and executive, they
really want you to focus on decision
makers, right? How many time how many
times you encounter that?
You have to make sure that who the
customers are when you put your GTM
plane together that is crystal clear
and there's no confusion. Mark my words.
I don't want to tell you how many time I
got tripped just because I cannot settle
or finalize or get agreement among
marketing, sales, product and executive
on the who the customers are.
Okay. So these are the couple things I
want to make sure that you know. Pricing
is also important because pricing will
dictate the positioning.
The other thing on the sales side is a
sales model. For this specifically, I
would 100% emphasize the content. What
sales people really want most of the
time, and I work with sales for 10 or 15
years, and some of you have attended my
session, you know, during that time, I
drank a lot.
Tea. Tea. Everybody T.
So what can they say and what can they
pass to their prospects and potential
customers? Okay. So
Shana
curious how many organization GTM has
historically been anchored in sales but
as GTM becomes more crossf functional
when one do you see is most effectively
to sit uh to drive alignment and
execution so Shana which organization do
you belong to are you on the sales side
or you on the marketing side that will
dictate my answer
I'm kidding I'm kidding
So, Shana, can you tell me uh are you on
the sales side or are you on marketing?
Uh okay, perfect. Honestly, from my
perspective, based on my experience
working on GTM, the GTM planning and
alignment tend to be led by marketing
organization.
Very rarely is done in sales. Honestly,
if it's done by sales, it's not by the
sales organization. It tend to be by
sales op or sales enablement. But uh in
some organization what I have seen the
GTM was led by product team but majority
of the organization I have encountered
experience talked to is in marketing. So
I if I have uh if I would make one
recommendation I would say marketing. Is
that helpful?
Great question. Yay. You know what? Send
me a quick LinkedIn connection. I'll
send you a $5 Amazon gift card. How is
that?
All right, Shashana, it's very nice to
email you and uh appreciate for the
question.
And on the marketing side, look at the
list. Seriously, if you compare like the
product side, ah whatever couple
questions you compare sales, ah several
questions and then this laundry list of
the things that marketeteers need to do.
You know what? Our jobs suck.
I'm kidding. I'm kidding. our job is
awesome. All right. So, there's a lot of
things that because you have to lead.
You have to lead. So, there's a lot of
things you have to take into
consideration. The objectives, the
success metrics, what channel you need
to dial up, landing page needs to be
created, the PR plan, blah blah blah
blah blah. Yeah. And I don't have to
tell you all this is pretty much like
what you do day in and day out.
Your GTM plan revolves around answering
these questions.
That is it. That is it.
Okay. And the question next is how do we
do like sounds great P, you know, I'm
thinking about it. I mean, I have a
categories. I have list of questions.
How do I structure all the information?
My god, there's so much information out
there. How can I structure the
information to help coordinate the
internal collaboration?
Great question. Great question.
>> So, what did you do this week?
>> What I normally do?
>> Reading
>> mostly.
>> And how many books did you read?
>> 17.
And does reading 17 books in one week
seem normal to you?
>> No. No. Of of course it's not normal. I
mean, does skipping three grades of
school seem normal? Does going to
Harvard at the age of 14 seem normal?
I'm clearly not normal. I thought we'd
establish that was the problem.
>> Harry, I want you to do something for
me.
>> What?
>> You and I are going to come up with a
list of goals you're going to achieve
between now and the end of the year. So,
for our next session, I want you to
think about some of the things you'd
like to have on that list. Things you've
done in your life and enjoyed.
>> What kind of things do you expect me to
put on this list?
>> All right, everybody. What's the name of
that movie? If you can actually write in
the Q&A section right now, you'll get
you're going to get a $5 Amazon gift
card from me. Everybody was like, "Let
me ask AI.
anyone? I am so happy I picked a bee
movie that nobody has seen before.
Excellent choice, ma'am. Excellent
choice,
man. Is Carrie uh uh Carrie Pilby? This
is actually a Netflix film. And uh like
I said, oh Lily was like, "You got me
stumped."
Thank you, Lily. That is exactly my
intention today.
Anyway, so you don't have to go watch
this film, okay? You don't. I'm giving
you the premise and that's the first 90
second of the film. The first 90 second
of the film basically tell you a couple
things. Number one, if she's not happy,
she's probably a genius and she's very
lonely. All right? She's seeing a
therapy, a therapist for a reason. And
uh to fix her problem,
she has to have a list. That's really
the bottom line. That is the opening.
The opening is super clear. That's a
hero's journey. The hero's journey is
she needs to either complete or fail the
list or fail the list. That's a hero's
journey.
That's your opening. Your opening of
your GTM plan needs to be that crystal
clear.
Nothing else.
Your opening needs to be that clear. You
don't want your executive guessing. You
don't want your salespeople get
confused. You need to define it so clear
that there's no confusion whatsoever.
People look at the first two slide, they
know exactly what you're trying to
accomplish.
That is the opening of every single plan
that you do. If you have heard me talk
or you have come to my workshop how to
do marketing plan, my opening or my
approach is exactly the same. It doesn't
change.
Your opening matters. Okay. So, how do
you do opening the GTM? Well, what is
your GTM goals? What's your GTM
objectives? What's your strategies? How
are you going to support sales? What is
the timeline? GTM is not forever. We
only have like specific time we're going
to do go to market. How long is that?
Again, who are our target customers?
Are we only target you? Are we only
targeting US or is it US, UK and Germany
or US and China you know whatever is
necessary and the KPI key performance
indicators
that's your opening it's very clear
objective is what strategies is how I'm
not telling you that you have to write a
laundry list of how you don't have to
but you should have a high level
strategies
to inform your internal stakeholders no
matter who. You also have to tell them
guys there's a starting point, there's
end point,
right? So here's an examples very
quickly.
Go to market. Generate 50 free trials
and two opportunities eight weeks after
launch and two opportunities. Okay, so
this is very clear. I am just going to
do free 50 free trials or you can say
this like the go-to market is really you
are attending a big event you are
spending a huge amount doing a trade
show and you can even talk about
generate you know 100 marketing
qualified leads which is being vetted
right the GTN can be as simple as one
major flagship events that you go to
you launch this product with a broad
awareness and a targeted demand Jan for
what verticals or what countries and my
GTM strategies are super clear. All
right. I craft a strong unique
positioning that's from product right
for PR, sales engagement and marketing
communication. I'm going to arm sales
with relevant information. I'm going to
deliver I have a launch day. So I'm just
going to deliver a flawless launch day
in New York City and we're also going to
do a road show. Oh, yay. Great. Then you
write that down, right? So strategy is
high level what I'm going to do and then
you're going to do the paid campaigns.
Great. You're going to deploy
accountbased marketing to 250 targets.
The sales enablement is you're going to
train the salespeople. You're going to
give them the relevant content. The GTM
timeline is very easy. The T is launch
day. T minus 4 is four months prior to
launch day. That's prep. T plus two is
the demand gen integrated campaign.
You're going to do it after T the launch
date.
Super clear. So there's no confusion.
None
target customers who target customers
right here. I tend to encourage that all
of you to write verticals by vertical or
by job titles. Okay. You can basically
say buyer's persona is richer CIO that's
fine too. But what I have come what I
have come to realize that to align with
the salespeople and the executive the
job title makes easier for them to
comprehend
and you will see my KPI very much align
with my strategies.
If I need to give sales people
information, okay, what are the how many
content I want to create? If I need to
generate, you know, leads, well, how
many vet vetted, right? Here I emphasize
vetted MQL, right? And if I actually
have opportunities, I identify here what
are the count I express interest or none
is fine too. It's a brain awareness. So
these two somehow set up and start my
GTM planning. Then the middle part of
your GTM is to explain everything
that you said on slide one and slide
two. That's it. That's it.
That should be your GTM.
You can determine what kind of process
you want to use. You can determine what
tools you want to use. That's all very
important. But you have to set the
opening.
Okay? And by the way, you don't have to
complete this the first time when you
share this uh uh uh opening with your
with your executive. All this can be
missing information. You can say trend
xx sales rep or you can say t minus you
know like three three months. This is
subject to change as time goes. This is
should be a living slides because they
are going to your executive and your
sales people, your product team going to
give you different information at
different given time. This is subject to
change and you capture it as you go. Is
that fair everyone? Okay. It's a living
document. So how do you use AI to do
that? So is actually already in your
worksheet. You can basically say you
ought to go to this is a prom. This prom
is very very simple. Mark Cirin who
actually joined the call is
sophisticated on doing uh prompt
engineering and also uh creating agent.
My prom just look very rudimentary
but I'm just going to give you some
ideas. you are the go-to market
specialist for what company and explain
very specifically what you are doing and
add more information about the product
and you set up basically your task to
fill out this information. You set up
this information exactly the way that AI
will answer align with how that your
opening will look like. Yeah.
Then you give additional information.
Here's a context you should use. You are
giving additional information from your
perspective that the AI will need to
fill out the blanks right here. And all
the information right here, you should
be able to gather them from the list of
a question I share with you earlier.
Cool. And of course, if you want to
build an AI agent,
it's better to actually convert your
prompt in a markdown format. You can
basically say markdown format. If you
don't know what markdown format is,
basically another prompt example similar
to what you have written for natural
language, but you are writing in a way
that AI can easily understand.
Okay. So you can see this is a markdown
format of it.
Right? So let me share one thing with
everyone in terms of AI versus human.
I would strongly encouraged
I would strongly encourage all of you to
create your own opening not having AI
created. Even I even though I shared the
AI prom example with you and I would
strongly suggest that you create several
versions of your own opening and then
you use AI to polish it.
The reason is I don't think this is just
Pam's opinion, Pam's opinion only and
you can violently disagree with me. I
don't think we should delegate the
strategic strategic thinking or the
critical thinking capability to AI just
yet.
Set of a great opening is like writing a
great opening of the screenplay.
That writing needs to come from us
first.
Then you can use AI to polish it.
I still write my own opening. The script
I share with you is my own writing first
and then I ask AI to polish that. Can
you imagine? I create this whole deck by
AI. You are going to kill me.
opening. I strongly suggest that you do
it first. Okay.
>> You and I are going to come up with a
list of goals you're going to achieve
between now and the end of the year.
>> Bucket list. I did not have the
emotional maturity to deal with a
terminal friend.
>> We can't accept returns.
>> What now? Engaged and confused. You're
much more beautiful than I had. I expect
this
fascinating Gary Joby. I find you
completely chanting.
>> All right. So, what's the middle part? A
middle part, which is act two. The act
two of this movie is the list, right?
So, there's no laundry list. Yes,
there's a laundry list. I mean, in real
life, there's probably 10, 20 things we
have to do. I get it. But in a movie,
you have to be very focused. So, they
pick three. the rule of three, right?
Three things. She has to make a friend.
She has to get a pet. She has to get on
a date. So, right right there is super
clear. Initially, it's like, okay, you
need to make a list. Now, we made that
very clear. These are the three list
that she has to do. Guess what? The act
two
is the three things. That's it.
That's it.
That's what you need to do for your
planning in a second in the middle part.
It's one of the three things that you
really want to talk about. And the three
things has a lot to do with here.
Ah, shoot. Went over too much.
The strategy and objective. You say your
objective is go to market. Your middle
part is literally explaining this.
That
is your middle part.
Okay.
All right. So let's be very serious at
this time. I always have people come to
me and say, "Okay, Pam, we answering all
the questions." Okay, and we all have a
tendency doing this, me included. Okay,
we just like we answer all the question.
We want to put all the effort we have
done into our GTM plans. So I want to
make sure everybody understand you
answering all the question doesn't mean
every single answer belongs in your GTM
plan. A lot of them are kind of like
data point, background information,
backdrop.
They not necessarily needs to be part of
the plan, but you need that in
information to substantiate your
recommendation.
So, make sure you understand that
answering all the questions doesn't mean
that it all have to fit into your GTM
plane. It doesn't have to be. Okay? But
you need to do that homework. You need
to do that research. If you don't you
cannot create plan. So less is more. And
remember essential essential essential
what is essential information needs to
be in the middle part. From my
perspective there are five essential
elements. Five everyone five. Okay I'm
going to tell you and everything else
you do is going to support these five
elements.
Number one, you should always have
persona, buyers persona and a target
customers. I am telling you how
important this is is you need to have
this information. If you don't,
everybody, every single GTM meeting you
start, everybody will say who is our
customers? Who are we market to?
You have to have this slide down. You
can have three customers, you can have
two customers, whatever that is number,
whatever that number is, you need to
have it. Okay.
The other one you need to have is
content. Everybody will ask you,
especially salespeople, what content do
I have? What can I say? Absolutely. What
can I say? Or what can I give to someone
my prospect? You need content. Okay.
This is very important for SASbased
platforms. This is also very important
for complex products. This is also very
important. you sell anything that is um
that is technologyheavy
because anything that's technology heavy
you need to explain it. If you need to
explain it it's not tied if you are
selling tide or you selling pen or
coffee even with that sometimes you have
to explain why you should buy the latest
you know hide right so you still need
content to explain it. Yeah. So
technologyheavy or complex products
content is very very important. So
number one is you need to determine who.
Number two you need to determine what to
share and what to say. And then the next
three slide is t minus 4 t
+ 2
and everything in the middle are
supporting t minus one a t minus 4 t
which is your launch day and t + 2.
Does that make sense everybody?
who
what
time frames
and deliverables
and I want to show you on tminus 4 and
this is a very I'm telling you it's a
basically you take project management
tool whatever you use a sauna you know
uh uh Monday.com whatever you know
nobody wants to go there and see 300
deliverables you have to help your
executive internal stakeholders order to
visualize key milestones and remember I
said there are three elements there's a
product there's marketing there is sales
so you identify in terms of what are the
key deliverables that will happen what
are the things that will take long time
to do
so there's always like competitive
analysis does take a bit of time uh
content development does take a little
bit of a time training takes a little
bit of time but there's a specific
deliverables related to each teams,
right? What are they?
You can actually add a a line in the
middle and whenever you review this, you
move that specific line every single
time.
Everybody will know what's delivered,
what is not.
In a way, you hold everybody
accountable.
Yeah. So right here the product a launch
at the CES January 7th whatever that day
is uh I would say any kind of product
launch or GTM it's about 16 weeks of a
planning if you work in the midsize
company or enterprise
16 weeks you can get it down to eight if
you want to but you will be you will
have a lot of sleepless night because it
does take a lot of effort to do content
and the messaging and positioning and
get your opening Right. It takes time.
Okay.
Launch day basically there are stuff you
have to do during launch time. Yeah.
Right.
And then of course the post-launch
rolling thunder. I call it rolling
thunder because it sounds good.
Oh, it's just basically on the channel
you need to dial up. Okay. So right here
the things I would do uh using AI just
be sure with you using AI is for example
buyer persona you need to have a basic
understanding of your customers and then
you can write AI prompt like basically
exactly to identify what are the things
the age demographics the personality
traits the goals and and aspiration and
challenges and pinpoint and describe a
day you can write it in the way that it
will create something similar to this
right here. And this is the de a prompt
I wrote but you can also create agent
and then this is basically AI's response
exactly the way that I want it to create
it paragraph one paragraph two paragraph
three which is aligned with right here
the three paragraphs I have and then the
goals aspiration and the challenges and
pinpoint. So there is a AI example and
then this is a human example and then
it's your job to determine you know how
do you want to modify it to make your
human example even better. And of course
many of you are sophisticated you can
create an agent. you can feed a lot of
information that you gather um from um
from Chad GBT or even from your own
research and you can create an agent and
a lot of people I have seen is using the
agent to even spill out the content that
the the AI thinks might be relevant or
can be personalized for uh for child uh
for for Charles Charlie or
Charles sorry about that
so this the persona and the content
creation can be collaborated
for here I don't have a strong opinion
who is taking the lead human versus AI I
think on the buyer persona more and more
companies and the marketers are relies
on AI because AI is sourcing the whole
internet so it makes sense so in terms
of if they know that buyers
buyers persona well enough. Chances are
the AI probably can come up with a
recommendation on what content to be
created and how to repurposing the
content. So here it's purely the
collaboration but what for your part is
you are the uh domain expert. So
whatever is suggested you need to have a
point of view. Does that make sense
everyone?
Yeah.
I always want to talk about the balance
of using you know the balance between
human and AI like who is taking the lead
and who is not in this one I don't have
a strong preference like I said who is
taking the lead
but the next three slides remember I
said there are five slides in the middle
part the five slides right the next
several slides is t minus 4 P
and T plus two. I have a very strong
opinion. You have to take the lead on
this. You need to have a vision
by answering all the questions I share
with you. You need to have somehow a
vision. Who is delivering what?
Of course, when I say vision, that
doesn't mean like you have to come up
with that. You will work with the
product team. You'll work with your
marketing team. You'll work with sales
team. But but somehow this needs to be
created
you know in or as part of your project
management tool and then you as a
conductor think about it if you are
leading the GTM effort or you are one of
the team members actually I prefer you
lead a GTM effort because once you lead
once you know exactly how to do it it's
very important for a lot of young um
young marketers you have a to lead a GTM
effort once because you leading it. You
can see like what other elements need to
be pulled together to create a GTM plane
internally within your company.
Okay. So pull those information and
showcase what are the re relevant
elements that you want to communicate
with your sales team, with your product
team, especially with your executives.
And then you showcase launch day you
know when does it start what is agenda
looks like who is the person will take
over right you showcase this everything
that I do here it is visually display
sorry visually dis display display that
you have ability to think strategically
that you have ability to pull all the
element together pair it down to show
the key element
to your internal stakeholders and
executives. How cool is that?
One slide. I don't have that many
slides. Have you noticed
for this one? The three slides I share
with you, you need to build the
timelines and deliverables. Use AI to
identify gaps. They are so good at that.
So good.
You create it. You ask AI say where are
the gaps? They will tell you. You can
ask AI. I'm gonna present this to my
management tomorrow. My management is a
president of the blah blah blah company
in this vertical industry. Can you tell
me what kind of questions this type of
person would ask?
You use that again. What are you doing?
Identify gaps.
And then of course the next step you
like okay what should I do? You ask for
recommendations.
Is that helpful everybody?
I want you to think differently. That's
all. I don't want you to change your GTM
methodology approach.
I want you to think a little bit
differently.
Next. Make your closing count. Closings
tend to be when you have a GTM plan.
Always imagine that as your living
document. Don't create new plan every
single time when you meet with your
internal stakeholder. You have one
master deck. You update that deck on
regular basis. You add slides. You move
slide to the back
as a backup. Right? So your closing may
be different every single time when you
use that master deck when you present it
to your management you can summarize you
know your GTM plan there are times you
will be asking for help I need more
budget how many times you have to say
that
that's help needed right so you identify
the gap like for example the gap is
right here okay we need to translate the
content to you know Germans. We never
anticipated that. Or all of the sudden
we decide to add a Japan as a new
country. We never anticipated that.
There's a budget that I needed that is
help needed.
Yeah. Seat decisions for example
positioning. Okay. We have 100 features.
Okay. These are the three features I
think we need to dial up. What do you
think? Do you agree with me? Seek
decisions. Next steps. What am I going
to accomplish in next eight weeks?
follow up. Who hasn't gotten things
done?
Politely remind them
that is your closing.
Every single time when you do updates is
going to be little different there.
Okay. Very good. So I talk about
opening,
I talk about middle parts,
I share five different slides from my
perspective I think you should use. But
again, think about it.
And you don't have to agree with me. If
you don't, that's perfectly fine. But
then what is your recommendation to
yourself? What that slide should look
like?
Closing. Every time you bring the GTM
updates to your management, what are the
action
do you want them? What are the action
you want them to take? You have to guide
them.
Okay.
There are two fwords, two, not just one.
You were like, seriously, Pam? Yes, I'm
not going to curse like drunken sailors.
So, I usually do offline. I'm kidding.
Yeah. two fwords when you work on the
GTM plans, especially with your internal
teams and executives.
What is that? Frustration.
The first word, the first F word is you
g you are going to get so frustrated
when you work on your GTM plans. If you
were not frustrated and everything goes
smoothly, please let me know. I'm going
to send you a $5 Amazon gift card or
tell us the secret. How can you work
your GTM plane so flawlessly?
So number one f word is frustrations.
Number two is fun.
If you can actually structure in a way
that you feel you are conducting
and you are leading the team
that is actually a lot of fun.
So frustrations and the funds are the
two fwords I personally will describe
when I lead my GTM effort. So that's
pretty much it. I hope I'm giving
everybody a little bit something to
think about in terms of a GTM and
connect with me on LinkedIn, YouTube and
Tik Tok if you want to share your
feedback with me in terms of like today.
Just want to let everybody know, I know
that Amy is going to send out a survey
to everybody. Okay? Just want remember
this. If you like my presentation, five
stars. If you don't like my
presentation, five stars. Your answer
should not change.
And for any marketing related questions,
any marketing especially B2B, and just
reach out to me anytime. I'm more than
happy to actually share um like I'm more
more than happy to address the questions
that you have. Okay. All right. Back to
you, Amy. Back to you.
>> Pam, do you actually have a few minutes
for a couple questions that came
through?
>> Oh, yeah. Sure. Definitely.
>> Awesome. Um what would um what would be
your response as a marketer or sales
enablement professional if the product
development team doesn't do market
research before developing a product?
How do you drive that in?
>> Okay, so if in general, can I just share
in general if you work for enterprises,
there's usually a marketing research
team. The marketing research team tend
to cover both the marketing team and
also product research. And the marketing
research team tend to stay uh by itself
or even with product or the marketing
team. And if you have a marketing
research team, I would ask the marketing
research to actually help you to do a
product research. However, in general,
any kind of product development, the
product team needs to do mark uh a
research on their own. And like you have
the question, they are not doing the
research. From my perspective, then it
will it will be relying on the marketing
team. Especially if you lead the GTM and
you need a competitive analysis and
product compet especially product
analysis uh between uh among different
competitors then you will need to do
that analysis yourself and I would take
the lead and um and do that and work
closely with your product team. See
that's just another thing you have to
do. Is that amazing or is that just kind
of sucky?
All right so I hope I answer your
question. If you have more uh like in
terms of how to do that, you let me
know. Okay. And go ahead. Uh there's
>> another here's another one. Um I feel
like we're constantly building while
also needing to execute products
evolving. The organization is evolving,
messaging also evolving. How do you
personally think about go to market
planning when all things are still
moving?
>> Oh my god, it never goes away. Who is
who is the one asking that question?
What's his what's what's his or her
name? as Shashana.
>> Shashana. Okay, you again, Shashana,
great question. Okay, can I tell you
something just very I mean it it just
marketer to marketer. Okay, that happens
to every single company.
Every single company you work with,
the things are changing on regular basis
and it it never goes away. It never
really ever finalize honestly. So what
you need to do is you have to be
incredibly nimble and flexible and then
you you just have to develop the
mentality of embrace it.
Is it going to change tomorrow? That
doesn't mean it's going to change
tomorrow. That doesn't mean you should
sit like still not doing anything. Just
based on today's information, what are
you going to do? And then with
tomorrow's new information, you're going
to modify a little bit. If if with
tomorrow's information or the new
product coming, you have to make such a
big shift, well something is not right
for your marketing plan to start with.
But if it's a tiny change, tiny change,
tiny change, then your marketing plane
is actually on the right track. Does
that make sense everybody?
That's very important. No matter what
who is throwing things at a marketing
team and you are able to make
adjustments little by little that means
your marketing plan is actually not bad
is pretty good but every time they
explore something at you you have to
redo your whole marketing plan something
is not right mark my words because I've
been there is that helpful
>> oh yeah I have I have one more for you
um you had mentioned that Yeah, you had
mentioned that your uh go to market plan
should be a living document. So, how do
you avoid scope creep or um protect
against wishy-washy stakeholders who
want to change everything, the segments,
the objectives, you know, all the time?
>> Look at me. Just look at me. I cry.
I cry. So, that happens also to every
one of us. Okay. It never goes away
either.
The way I do it even even including
management like I talked to my CEO and
then like you know what we need to make
changes. I know I know I know I know you
you pay for my you know you do you you
pay for my check my paycheck so I'll do
it. I'm kidding. Um the way I would do
it is I always document it like like on
my GTM plane if they are making changes
I would document the changes especially
on the T minus4 right and uh you will
have a slide for example uh the
positioning needs to be delivered at
this state and then you can always put a
little let me go back sorry about that
I'm just sharing with you right here so
that on here this specific slide is kind
of uh important so like any kind of
changes you can document it. You can
basically write here and say okay this
has been pushed out say delayed you know
due to blah blah blah blah. So I always
add a little wording here like if I
don't have any space I would put
asterisk here and I would put wordings
right here and I literally would
document it to the point that my
internal stakeholders say I get the
point Pam yes we change all the time but
I still need to make change. I would say
okay okay girlfriend I have no problem
you are making changes I just want to
let you know this kind of changes does
impact us and therefore I need more
budget or therefore we need to cut
budget from this to that from there all
of a sudden you have a leg to stand on
to discuss what needs to be done next
because you document it is that helpful
okay
I know it's hard and you are all asking
the right question and uh you are asking
very realistic question that happened to
you and I want to let you know you are
not alone. That happens to all of us.
All of us.
Okay, go ahead. All right, that was all.
Thank you so much, Pam. It was a
pleasure having you on today. Thanks
everyone for joining us. This has been
great.